---
title: <i class="fa fa-hand-o-up"></i> Make
layout: multicourse_page
---

<script src="{{site.baseurl}}/js/make-api.js"></script>
<script src="{{site.baseurl}}/js/makeGallery.js"></script>

# 1. Set up a blog (30 mins)
There are lots of ways to blog on the web, but by far the easiest method is to use one of the below providers. They'll do all of the technical jiggery pokery for you. Best of all, it won't cost you anything financially.

* <a href="http://wordpress.com">Wordpress</a>
* <a href="http://tumblr.com">Tumblr</a>

You don't have to use one of these providers, it's up to you. Just make sure that whatever choice you make that you're able to post text,  images and that your peers can comment on your posts.

Now that you've got somewhere to express yourself via prose and imagery, you're going to write a magnificent blog post. It doesn't have to be a novel, but do try and share some of yourself, your reasons for joining Webmaker Training and some interesting facts about yourself. 

You're now ready to share your magnificent blog post with your peers in the Webmaker Training discussion forum. It doesn't have to be much, just  something along the lines of "Hi, I'm Troy and I've just completed the first challenge, come and say Hi. I look forward to meeting you all"
http://discourse.webmakerprototypes.org/category/meet

Spend your last few minutes of time reading over people's introductory blog posts and leave a comment for them. You may even want to link to your blog in the comment - if you feel mighty.

# 2. Register a domain
Make a mindmap to generate statements, drawings, and words that explore your possible domain names. Then, share it in [the discussion forum](http://discourse.webmakerprototypes.org/category/training/connecting). Ask for feedback from your peers, have a conversation about potential names and once you've found one you're happy with, register it!

# 3. Make to explain DNS

Explain what DNS is and how it works. You can explain your ideas in words, a diagram, a video, a game, a song or even through the power of interpretative dance if you want to. The important thing is that you understand it enough to be able to produce an artifact that explains it to others.

<div class="gallery">
<div class="make-gallery row"></div>
</div>
<script type="text/javascript">
			var gallery = new MakeGallery(
			{
				tagPrefix: "webmaker:template",
				limit: 6
			},
			".make-gallery",
			{
	 		apiURL: "https://makeapi.webmaker.org",
    hidden: ["tags", "description"]
			});
</script>

##Notice
<div class="alert alert-info">
<strong>This module is under active development.</strong> We'd LOVE your help making this content better. <a href="http://discourse.webmakerprototypes.org/category/training/connecting">Join the discussion forum</a> and let us know how you'd like to improve the content or or <a href="https://github.com/mozilla/school-of-webmaking/issues">start filing issues</a> to get involved.
</div>
