---
title: <i class="fa fa-hand-o-up"></i> Make
layout: multicourse_page
topic_url: http://ttw-discourse.mofostaging.net/t/comments-about-make/13
categories: [exploring]
---

<script src="{{site.baseurl}}/js/make-api.js"></script>
<script src="{{site.baseurl}}/js/makeGallery.js"></script>

#Make to learn tech skills and concepts.

## 1. Say "Hello" by showing #TeachTheWeb what you think.

We’re more than handles, icons and profile pictures--we’re humans and peers in this together. In getting started, explore one of the following questions:

* What does “connected learning” mean to you? What does it look like?
* How would you define “making”? What is something that you see in a new light because of your definition?
* When is a time you learned something from someone else?

with one of the following webtastic tools:

* [XRay Goggles Make](https://goggles.webmaker.org/)
* [Thimble Make](https://thimble.webmaker.org/en-US)
* [Popcorn Make](https://popcorn.webmaker.org/en-US)

To get you started, check out these introductions other folks have made and hit "remix". Then go ahead and post your first “Make” to the [Webmaker Community](http://discourse.webmakerprototypes.org/). 

<div class="gallery">
<div class="make-gallery row"></div>
</div>
<script type="text/javascript">
			var gallery = new MakeGallery(
			{
				tagPrefix: "webmaker:exploring-makeprompt",
				limit: 3
			},
			".make-gallery",
			{
	    		apiURL: "https://makeapi.webmaker.org",
                hidden: ["tags"]
			});
</script>

## 2. How do *we* define our terms?

As the “Makes” begin to stream in from our cohort, take a look and see:

* If someone defined “making” or “connected learning” differently than you did. 
* If someone used a technique or an idea that you’d like to use in the future. 

If you are so inspired, either:

* Respond to their post, or even better.. 
* Remix it from your point-of-view. Be sure to mention them with an @[name] when you post it.

## 3. Connect Yourself to Connected Learning

Identify an exercise in your teaching or engagement practice that you might redesign using Connected Learning principles. Walk us through how you “usually” do it, and then what your new experience would look like. 

If you’d like some further “inspiration” try hitting up the [DML Hub](http://dmlhub.net/research) or [Connected Learning](http://connectedlearning.tv/) site for some tasty resources. Link to the resource that inspired you in your post.

## 4. Open it Up

When have you been surprised and delighted that something was “open” for you to use? This could be OER content, an open web tool, or a picture you found on the internet. Create a “make” about that experience.

## Make to Reflect

Over the course of #TeachTheWeb, we're developing an understanding of the following ideas:

- Making as a way of learning
- Building open learning experiences for others 
- Delivering feedback and iterating via playtesting
- Practicing openness 

If you were to create a Badge to reflect the skills you mastered in your Make, what would that Badge be? Go ahead and:

- Give it a name: what would you call your Badge?
- Make a visual: what would your Badge look like? Draw the icon or create a little jpeg. 
- List the criteria: what would the criteria for the Badge be? How would someone show the skills you mastered in your make?
- Share it with us. Let the community know how you think these skills should be assessed.

## Apply for your Webmaker Mentor Badge
Create a portfolio of your Teach the Web work, and <a href="http://blog.webmaker.org/mentor">apply for the Webmaker Mentor Badge</a>!
