---
title: Reflect
layout: multicourse_page
categories: [webmaker-theory]
---

# Reflect.
Reflecting on our experiences and creations leads us down the path to life-long learning. The best way to connect and learn is to let others know what you're thinking, making and doing so that people can respond, ask questions and push you to be better AND realize your own awesome. If you already have a blog set up, you can simply start tagging posts with #teachtheweb. If you don't have a blog, consider setting one up. There are lots of different blog engines to choose from. [Tumblr](http://tumblr.com) is probably the easiest to set up but[Wordpress](http://wordpress.com), [Edublogs](http://edublogs.org), [Google’s Blogger](http://blogger.com), or a Wordpress installation on your own site might give you more features. Just follow the onscreen directions, and if you get stuck, post to the [G+ Webmaker Community](http://mzl.la/gpluswebmaker).**Be sure and tag your Teach the Web related posts with #teachtheweb!**

## Pedagogy Questions
* What do you value about making, and how can you contribute to the building of the knowledge base that is the #teachtheweb community?
* What is the advantage of making as learning over traditional “forward facing” pedagogies? Disadvantages?
* What kind of thinking is involved when you Make?
* How transferable are coding skills to other domains? Why is learning a little code important?
* How can webmaking help discovery and wonder be valued in formal learning spaces?
* What kinds of connected learning networks exist in your area?
* How do your online connections influence your offline life?
* How is your participation in #teachtheweb connected learning?

## Collaboration Questions
* How do you connect, collaborate, and network with people around the world?
* How can I find an open community/project that best suits my skills/ambitions/goals?
* Why is collaboration a better option than a number of people trying to accomplish similar things?
* How do you expand your knowledge and skills through the input of others?

## Openness Questions
* How is "open" different from "free"?
* What are some possible ways "free" tools aren't really free? Or make money?
* Why do some "free" tools leave a watermark on the finished product?
* How does openness drive innovation ?
* What competencies and skills are necessary for working in the open?
* Who's the author in the open?
* What control do you have with your content?
* How do you add creative commons or other copyright to your work?
* Why might sharing and publishing in the open be advantageous?
* What are the benefits of inviting people to remix ideas?
* What are the differences between different kinds of copyleft/open licenses? What else is there besides CC? How do these licenses deal with idea of openness and remix?



