---
title: <span class="fa fa-question"></span> Reflect
layout: multicourse_page
categories: [building]
---

# Reflecting on our experiences and creations leads us down the path to life-long learning.
Write or make your reflections and share them with the G+ Webmaker Community. Be sure and tag your Teach the Web related posts with #teachtheweb!

## Pedagogy Questions

* How can you adapt a resource and open it to your learners? 
* How can you hack your learning space to inspire more open learning?
* Explore how hacking leads to learning. When hacking, what worked well? What didn't? and what did you learn from the latter?
* What are possible outcomes of educational systems that don't even know there is such a thing as programming (to borrow from Rushkoff) or as Arduinos or RPi or OER?
* What are possible outcomes of systems that do know about these things, and how do we work towards such systems/relationships/communities?
* How can we help learners demonstrate learning by remixing content in webmaking/coding frames so that they manipulate content rather than weather its delivery?
* How can we mix online and offline activities to get learners leveling up in the entire breadth of web literacy and open culture?
* How can we teach web skills in offline or slow network environments?
* What are some common, helpful progressions or learning paths people take through webmaking?
* What are best practices for mentorship in online teaching communities? Which organizations or platforms get these right?
* What makes a space good for learning?What are some common, helpful progressions or learning paths people take through webmaking?
* What are best practices for mentorship in online teaching communities? Which organizations or platforms get these right?
* What makes a space good for learning?

## Collaboration Questions
* How can remix invite learning?
* What "best practice" forms of collaboration do connected learners and webmakers use?
* How can definitions of collaboration from informal learning spaces broaden collaboration in formal spaces?
* What are the barriers to collaboration in our spaces, and how do we help one another work around them to keep our teaching and learning open?
* How should we balance collaborative work with individual work?
* How does empathy play into collaboration?
* How does leadership play into collaboration?
* How do the following idioms relate to collaboration?
1.	“If you want something done right, do it yourself”
2.	"No man is an island."
3.	"There's no such thing as a free lunch."
4.	"Actions speak louder than words."
5.	"Too many cooks spoil the broth."
6.	"Two heads are better than one."
7.	"Honesty is the best policy."
8.	"A chain is only as strong as its weakest link."

## Openness Questions
* How can you adapt/hack your practice into the open?
* Why should we commit to adapting our teaching and learning to be the open?



