---
title: <span class="fa fa-random"></span> Explore
layout: multicourse_page
categories: [building-together]
---

# Playtesting

## What is playtesting?
Playtesting is a method of quality control that reveals design flaws, complications, misunderstandings and missed steps. It's been used in the gaming industry for years, and our open community has adopted the term to supplement “User Testing”. Using the term “playtest” instead of “user test” is a way of indicating that quality control can be fun and that Webmaking as Learning is a good way to surface the playful spirit that learning experiences should have. Playtesting comes back to agency as it allows learners to help design their own learning paths. Playtesting is a step in co-designing with your audience, and it's a reflective activity for that audience.

*In the Mozilla universe, we believe in the idea that co-designing things with the people we're designing them for.* It leads to more effective, interesting and appropriate learning opportunities. Instead of keeping our ideas behind closed doors, trying to perfect them before sharing, we say (a variation of) “Just ship it!” We put things into the world, allow people to play around with them, and see what happens.

The answer to “What works best?” is ultimately a question that you and your audience have to work out together. It can be quite scary to playtest half-baked ideas and creations we've never shown our actual audience. However, playtesting allows us to gather the valuable perspectives of our own audience. Sometimes, you'll find an audience you didn't mean to find. Sometimes you'll discover that you've missed the mark and have to start again.

Because each person has a unique perspective that often leads to rethinking concepts, ideas or educational resources, shipping often means that we can work faster. We can integrate new ideas and then test that integration. Then we can rinse and repeat. Useful, constructive feedback drives trust and community; to sustain a community of webmakers, it's important for users to have the ability to gift feedback to authors.

As you share your makes, resources and projects, watch your user's reactions and ask yourself questions about their experience. As them to answer questions too, involve them in your process!
Practically speaking, if you don't have a regular meetup or classroom where you're already engaging your audience, playtesting in the real world might seem difficult. It doesn't have to be. A playtesting session can be designed as an informal kitchen table party where you can practice how to #teachtheweb. Playtesting your ideas with a group of friends or relatives is a great way to push your thinking to the next level.

The important thing about these next weeks of #teachtheweb is to understand how the topics and themes we've explored thus far relate to our real worlds and daily lives. Playtesting will allow us to learn from our successes and failures. We can then improve our resources based on practical experience.

