---
title: <span class="fa fa-random"></span> Concepts
layout: multicourse_page
categories: [facilitating]
---

# Facilitating the Webmaker Way

We all have different ideas of what it means to 'facilitate' learning. Some of us feel comfortable leading groups in formal spaces, like schools, while others would rather model learning for others by tinkering in a workshop. Some of us thrive at the helm of bustling makerspaces, while others would rather toil alone to post a make and tutorial online. The truth is that we need all kinds of mentors, teaching, and learning to advance the Webmaker mission. Part of being a successful Webmaker mentor is using your strengths to help others learn to write and teach the Web. Another part of being a successful Webmaker mentor, however, is leveling up your teaching skills and working with others across a wide variety of local and global spaces to meet learners where they are in making the Web they want.

Most generally, Webmaker mentors push themselves to offer users experiences that are

* Purposeful.
* Participatory.
* Fun.

Not every event can be everything to everyone. For example, in a formal, low-fi setting, you might work to design an impactful, inspiring experience with paper prototyping that learners could do alone or in small groups at their desks, seats, or stations. You want to address your hosts' and users' norms, as well as their needs.

Wherever you #teachtheweb, you want to plan and execute a purposeful event. Think about the Webmaker teaching kits - what are your goals? How will you reach them? What activities will help your learners learn the Web in a personally meaningful way? What resources will you need to have on-hand or online to teach successfully? What do your hosts have? What will you need to bring? How will you document and share your work and keep participants' connected to Webmaker and one another afterward? A successful event might include some - or even a lot - of time for tinkering, but you need to approach the event as something more than an opportunity to tinker. You need to be clear on what you'll teach, what your users will make, and how your event will empower participants to keep learning and making thereafter.

Webmaker events should also be participatory. However, this doesn't mean that you set your users loose without support. You have to work hard to plan an event that is both participatory and purposeful. As a mentor, you should work to find that sweet spot between just-in-time teaching (which is sometimes very structured, like a webpage) and putting users in charge of what you will teach. There are plenty of great Webmaker teaching kits available that model a progression of participatory activities assembled to #teachtheweb. You don't have to reinvent the wheel (maybe just re-shape it a bit) to run a successful and participatory event. We are each other's teaching and technology mentors, and contributing and forking teaching activities and kits is one way for us to remain participants in the Webmaker community and mission. Generally, if you can get your participants moving, talking, and having fun with one another around your event's big ideas before you introduce any particular Webmaker tool, you will have helped your learners activate their prior knowledge about Webmaking and set their own reasons for learning.

Finally, plan your event to be fun. While our mission is a serious one, the more joy we find in it, the more we'll stick with it and the more people we'll attract to it. Discovery is a delightful process, and agency is empowering. Plan your event so that participants finish with something that reflects their learning, as well as their humor or passion. Just as you feel a sense of accomplishment after a successful mentorship, try to plan events that leave a lot of room for play, peer-teaching between participants, co-learning with you as you help solve problems, and users' decision-making. If your participants feel like they are at play, they will self-organize their learning to the point that your teaching seems almost magically invisible. They'll leave saying, 'That was awesome!', as they see how you designed the event to maximize their learning and wrap your teaching in their success.

We need to work purposefully because have a mission to keep and build an open Web (or aug-layer or matrix or whatever comes next), but, ultimately, if we succeed, it won't feel like a fight to be free. Part of our work as mentors is to contribute to that freedom by helping others whenever and wherever we can, and as we learn more and level up our facilitating skills, 'whenever and wherever' just get bigger and bigger and bigger.

Towards that end, one way to approach mentorship under our mission is to think of purposeful, participatory, and fun facilitating as playtesting.

# What is playtesting?

Playtesting is a method of quality control that reveals design flaws, complications, misunderstandings and missed steps. It's been used in the gaming industry for years, and our open community has adopted the term to supplement 'user Testing.' Using the term 'playlets' instead of 'user test' is a way of indicating that quality control can be fun and that Webmaking as Learning is a good way to surface the playful spirit that learning experiences should have. Playtesting comes back to agency as it allows learners to help design their own learning paths. Playtesting is a step in co-designing with your audience, and it's a reflective activity for that audience.

In the Mozilla universe, we believe in the idea that co-designing things with the people we're designing them for. It leads to more effective, interesting and appropriate learning opportunities. Instead of keeping our ideas behind closed doors, trying to perfect them before sharing, we say (a variation of) 'Just ship it!' We put things into the world, allow people to play around with them, and see what happens.

The answer to 'What works best?' is ultimately a question that you and your audience have to work out together. It can be quite scary to playtest half-baked ideas and creations we've never shown our actual audience. However, playtesting allows us to gather the valuable perspectives of our own audience. Sometimes, you'll find an audience you didn't mean to find. Sometimes you'll discover that you've missed the mark and have to start again.

# Shipping our events and makes

When we ship and event or make, we share it in the open for others to use, fork, and remix in teaching and learning the Web. We out our work and ourselves out there to model interest-driven, openly-networked, and production-centered work on behalf of a free people and the open Web. We publish towards a better future. We are part of that better future, and as we work toward it, we become better and better mentors because of the feedback and criticism we get from users and peers also working in the open. Every time we ship a make, event, or teaching kit, we need to take it as an opportunity to tinker with our approaches, attitudes, and capacities for teaching and learning.

Because each person has a unique perspective that often leads to rethinking concepts, ideas or educational resources, shipping often means that we can work faster. We can integrate new ideas and then test that integration. Then we can rinse and repeat. Useful, constructive feedback drives trust and community; to sustain a community of webmakers, it's important for users to have the ability to gift feedback to authors.

As you share your makes, resources and projects, watch your user's reactions and ask yourself questions about their experience. As them to answer questions too, involve them in your process! Practically speaking, if you don't have a regular meetup or classroom where you're already engaging your audience, playtesting in the real world might seem difficult. It doesn't have to be. A playtesting session can be designed as an informal kitchen table party where you can practice how to #teachtheweb. Playtesting your ideas with a group of friends or relatives is a great way to push your thinking to the next level.

The important thing about these next weeks of #teachtheweb is to understand how the topics and themes we've explored thus far relate to our real worlds and daily lives. Playtesting will allow us to learn from our successes and failures. We can then improve our resources based on practical experience.