---
title: <span class="fa fa-random"></span> Concepts
layout: multicourse_page
categories: [connecting]
---

#How do we continue learning? How do we continue teaching? How do we help others do the same?

By connecting. Connecting is a critical piece of teaching of the Web. The <a href="http://webmaker.org/literacy">skills</a> we learn, the <a href="http://webmaker.org/teach-templates">kits</a> and <a href="http://events.webmaker.org">events</a> we design, the fun we have - these are all invitations to connect with each other. There are all sorts of ways for us to keep up with one another and our work, and many of these opportunities are already familiar to us. We can connect

- At Webmaker.org and maker parties.
- Through Twitter and G+.
- On MoPads and community calls.

Many of us have found our way into Webmaker Training thanks to something called the 'contribution ladder,' a concept of user experience that engages participants in teaching the web at different levels of involvement with the Webmaker community. For example, you might have started out as a learner at a maker party or in the last iteration of #teachtheweb. Then you might have shared a remix or make with the wider Webmaker community and found it retweeted and shared again by the #teachtheweb team. After that, maybe you taught a few colleagues some basic HTML for a class project or held a small maker party to remix a starter resource on Popcorn or Thimble. As you increased the frequency and depth of your involvement with Webmaker, the Webmaker community increased its engagement with you.

How can you continue to be a part of the contribution ladder, leveling up your own skills and contributions as you rich down to help others along the ladder, as well?

Just as we work to design purposeful, participatory, and fun events for learners, we need to remain connected with one another up and down the contribution ladder in purposeful, participatory, and fun ways. In thinking about how to connect further with others working for an open Web, and in thinking about how to help others begin this work, as well, you might

- Learn GitHub and post your code (for makes AND events) there, as well as on Webmaker, for developers and educators to 'fork' into their own work.
- Talk with local educators in formal spaces - like schools and libraries - about starting a Webmaker club with an institutional co-sponsor.
- Level-up another local contributor to mentor status and work together to scale up your events from the kitchen table to larger venues like maker spaces or libraries.
- Push your work into a new place for new audiences - write an e-book on coding in the classroom or learn how to make an online or print-and-play game that teaches the web.

Ultimately, we connect with one another to make this work real. An open Web depends on open societies, and those societies are full of living, breathing people like us who can best latch on to ideas of diversity and freedom when given the chance to see and make things of tangible worth and personal meaning like any number of Webmaker and Mozilla Foundation projects around the world. We are ambassadors of a country - a world really - <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T6W42KLpNgQ">that does not yet exist</a>. That world includes people inside and outside our work, so we have to be mindful about both supporting our teammates and expanding our team (and notions of it) to include everyone interested in freedom, especially if they're unsure of what that means online. We are not gatekeepers; we are not in charge of who gets on the ladder or not; we are fellow sojourners and - sometimes - rungs. We're here to advance a mission and benefit our fellow peoples; there is nothing to hold back in those regards.

Connecting at a human level, face-to-face and online, low-fi and hi-fi, to help and ask for help - this is what it means to stay connected in an effort to write the Open Web and open societies.

Now that we’ve put theory and practice to the test and seen first hand that shifting dynamic of mentor/learner relationships, it’s time to reflect on what we learned together and begin our quests to create local communities of practice that tie into a global movement.

## 1. Make it Real

Online and face-to-face maker communities amplify each other's work and the work of their participants. By sharing what we do in the offline world with our networks in the online world (and vice versa), we create resources, examples and case studies that can help us identify which methods work and how we, as a global community, can support one another.

### Welcome to the Maker Party!
Maker Party is a way to put the lessons we've been learning through #teachtheweb into action. It's an opportunity to make, connect, celebrate openness, use interest-driven, learner-centric activities and methods to teach web literacy skills, provide mentorship and empowerment to people, get feedback from our peers, and experiment.
You can teach and make the web anywhere, with anyone. There are people teaching in parks, in internet cafes, in libraries, in classrooms and around their kitchen tables. Maker Party is a way to connect and celebrate with other learners, makers and mentors. You can be part of it too!
How do you want to teach people?

Making it real in our local areas is about making a commitment to your community or people you care about. It helps to find like-minded  individuals and/or organizations who want to help. No matter where you live, there are likely people nearby who would help you organize a workshop, find others who are interested in learning how to be a webmaker or appreciate you volunteering at one of their events. There are people who want to have this conversation with you.
The only thing you have to do is ask people to participate. Chances are, once they understand your aim, they'll be excited about participating in some way. Just explain your goals, what you want to do, and ask for help. The worst that can happen is that someone says “no,” in which  case, you can find someone else to ask.

A good place to start is by searching the directory of Mozilla volunteers and finding out if there are any in your area. You should also see what kinds of hacker spaces, maker clubs, digital literacy programs, community spaces, libraries, etc. are in your area. Get creative and use broad strokes; there are people out there, we know it!
Throwing a Maker Party doesn't have to be time intensive or difficult. You just have to decide how much time and energy you have to #teachtheweb and then organize something that fits your schedule. If you're already teaching digital skills in your classroom, running a Maker Club or otherwise gathering learners on a regular basis, you can participate by simply sharing with us what your learners are working on.

If you haven't yet gathered a group of participants to #teachtheweb to, Mozilla has developed three types of event formats that make it easy for anyone to get started:

* A Kitchen Party is a very easy way to #teachtheweb – you don't need to plan much/anything, just invite people to meet at a particular day and time and start making things together. [The How to Host a Kitchen Party Guide](https://thimble.webmaker.org/p/l0ui/) explains step-by-step how to run this easy event.
* A Hack Jam requires a bit of preparation and planning. You decide to organize an event where between 10 and 50 people come to learn about the web and make things. [The How to Host a Hack Jam Guide](https://thimble.webmaker.org/p/l05e/) can help you think about what to do in your Hack Jam.
* Finally, a Pop-Up is for those who are looking to form real world networks in their local area. It's a good way to get your community excited about the types of offerings available. A Pop-Up is an event where multiple organizations come together for a day of hacking. Each organization sets up a station with a lightweight activity that participants can do in a short amount of time. [The Pop-Up Guide](https://thimble.webmaker.org/p/l05w/) covers this format in detail and points to some great resources that will help you understand it. 

### Continuing to #teachtheweb
Think about all you've done in this #teachtheweb experience. Why are you still here? Who have you connected with? Why is this interesting to you? What did you learn? Do you want to #teachtheweb to people in your community? Do you want to support others by making content or spreading the word? How do you want to be involved in the spread of Web Literacy?
Whether you run a Maker Party or create content for other party hosts to use, whether you talk about the importance of web skills to your networks or research applicable frameworks for teaching the web in public schools, whether you make design assets, write blog posts, donate food or space to people trying to #teachtheweb... There is value to whatever kind of contribution you are willing to make.
We've been establishing a community of practice throughout the #teachtheweb experience. We've explored the pedagogies of the Maker and Learning Movements and have experimented with creating interest-driven, learner-centric lessons. Now we're experimenting with delivering those lessons, and we're doing it together!

## 2. #Teachtheweb Forever

- We are a community of practice.
- We are all contributing to the spread of web literacy through our interactions online and through our activities to #teachtheweb in our local communities.
- Our work is not done.

Until learning web skills, openness and learner-centric methods are inherent in our educational systems, until collaboration and connectivity are integral parts of our learning pathways, until we can recognize learning no matter where it happens, until people all over the world can read, write to and think critically about information in the global knowledge ecosystem that is the World Wide Web – our work is not done.
We can't expect that someone else, some other organization, some other community to change the world for us. WE have to make commitments to ourselves and each other that we will spread web skills, the open ethos and maker culture in our communities in whatever ways we can.

### Connecting to the broader movement: Maker Party
The last reading said “There is value to whatever kind of contribution you are willing to make.” We couldn't agree more.

There is value to whatever kind of contribution you are willing to make.

There are lots of ways to continue contributing to #teachtheweb, Mozilla and the Making is Learning movement. Whether it's making and sharing content, spreading other people's ideas and makes, reporting or fixing a bug, developing new prototypes, running events, volunteering at events, giving feedback, improving someone's design, remixing a make to include constructive criticism, participating in community calls or making a donation, contribution to the cause is key.
Maker Party is a great way to plug in to the broader movement. For the next three months join Mozilla and the National Writing Project to throw a global party celebrating all the amazing things we can make thanks to the web. Get out there and #teachtheweb, and use the online community we've been building to share your plans and thoughts with the #teachtheweb community. Put your Maker Parties on the map, make stuff, share outcomes and if you need help or more information, ask for it!

We cannot #teachtheweb alone, the task is too great. There is an entire community of people that care about this work and are eager to keep you involved. Be inspired by this amazing community, and make your own commitment to #teachtheweb, then share your commitment with the rest of us. 

We aren't going anywhere. We're here to help and learn from one another. Now that this part of #teachtheweb is over, let's party!
