---
title: <i class="fa fa-hand-o-up"></i> Make
layout: multicourse_page
categories: [onlinepresence]
---

<script src="{{site.baseurl}}/js/make-api.js"></script>
<script src="{{site.baseurl}}/js/makeGallery.js"></script>

# 1. Set up a blog (30 mins)
There  are lots of ways to blog on the web, but by far the easiest  method is  to use one of the below providers. They'll do all of the technical  jiggery pokery for you. Best of all, it won't cost you anything  financially.

    Wordpress

    Tumblr

    Blogger

You  don't have to use one of these providers, it's up to  you. Just  make  sure that whatever choice you make that you're able to  post text,   images and that your peers can comment on your posts.

Now  that you've got somewhere to express yourself via  prose and imagery,  you're going to write a magnificent blog post. It  doesn't have to be a  novel, but do try and share some of yourself, your  reasons for joining  Webmaker Training and some  interesting facts about yourself. 

You're  now ready to share your magnificent blog post with your peers in the  Webmaker Training discussion forum. It doesn't have to be much, just   something along the lines of "Hi, I'm Troy and I've just completed the  first challenge, come and say Hi. I look forward to meeting you all"
http://discourse.webmakerprototypes.org/category/meet

Spend  your last few minutes of time reading over people's  introductory blog  posts and leave a comment for them. You may even want  to link to your  blog in the comment - if you feel mighty.

# 2. Register a domain

# 3. Make to explain DNS

Explain what DNS is and how it works. You can explain your ideas in words, a diagram, a video, a game, a song or even through  the  power of interpretative dance if you want to.  The important thing  is  that you understand it enough to be able to produce an artifact that  explains it to others.

<div class="gallery">
<div class="make-gallery row"></div>
</div>
<script type="text/javascript">
			var gallery = new MakeGallery(
			{
				tagPrefix: "webmaker:template",
				limit: 6
			},
			".make-gallery",
			{
	  		apiURL: "https://makeapi.webmaker.org",
        hidden: ["tags", "description"]
			});
</script>